docs: expand README.md, revamp CONTRIBUTING.md, add AGENTS.md (#489)
canonical/charmlibs: README.md

# charmlibs

`charmlibs` is the home of Canonical's charm libraries -- Python packages used by [Juju](https://canonical.com/juju) charms.

> Charms are Python programs that use the [Ops](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/ops/) framework to manage workloads on Kubernetes or bare-metal clouds. Charm libraries package up common functionality so that teams don't have to reinvent the wheel. Each library in this monorepo is distributed as a separate Python package on PyPI.

Reviewer: 'Bare-metal' seems wrong here. Lxd is not bare-metal, for example.

Given that people are still confused about it, I wonder if the final sentence should be its own paragraph, or bolded, or called out in some other way.

Author: ```suggestion
Charms are Python programs that use the [Ops](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/ops/) framework to manage workloads on Kubernetes or machine clouds. Charm libraries package up common functionality so that teams don't have to reinvent the wheel.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Each library in this monorepo is distributed as a separate Python package on PyPI, so you charms only include what they actually need.
```

There are two kinds of charm libraries:

> - **General libraries** (e.g. [`charmlibs-apt`](apt/), [`charmlibs-pathops`](pathops/)) provide utility APIs for charms. Imported as `from charmlibs import apt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **General libraries** (such as [`charmlibs-apt`](apt/), [`charmlibs-pathops`](pathops/)) provide utility APIs for charms. Imported as `from charmlibs import apt`.
```

> - **Interface libraries** (e.g. [`charmlibs-interfaces-tls-certificates`](interfaces/tls-certificates/)) manage the structured data that charms exchange over a Juju relation. Imported as `from charmlibs.interfaces import tls_certificates`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Interface libraries** (such as [`charmlibs-interfaces-tls-certificates`](interfaces/tls-certificates/)) manage the structured data that charms exchange over a Juju relation. Imported as `from charmlibs.interfaces import tls_certificates`.
```

## Contributing to this monorepo

> `charmlibs` is for libraries that are broadly useful across different charms and teams. A library is a good fit if it:

Reviewer: It's not clear from reading this if these are AND conditions or OR conditions.

Author: ```suggestion
`charmlibs` is for libraries that are broadly useful across different charms and teams. A library is a good fit if it both:
```

- **Solves a common problem**, and is useful to charms across multiple products or teams, not just your own.

> - **Has a design or a proven track record** — either a specification with cross-team buy-in, or a pattern already tested in production. (Migrating an existing, widely-used Charmhub-hosted library doesn't need a separate specification.)

Author: ```suggestion
- **Solves a common problem**: It is useful to charms across multiple products or teams, not just your own.
- **Has a design or a proven track record**: Either a specification with cross-team buy-in, or a pattern already tested in production. (Migrating an existing, widely-used Charmhub-hosted library doesn't need a separate specification.)
```

All public interfaces intended for use by other charms should have a corresponding `charmlibs.interfaces` library.

If your library is more of a team-internal utility, [Distribute charm libraries](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/how-to/python-package/) covers the alternatives.

Got something in mind? You can talk to us on [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#charmhub-charmdev:ubuntu.com) before opening a PR — we'd love to hear about it.

**Ready to dive in?** Follow the **[tutorial](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/tutorial)** to add a new library, or the **[migration guide](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/how-to/migrate/)** to port a Charmhub-hosted library. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for the developer quick-reference.

For the details of how the monorepo works:

- [Types of tests](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/explanation/charmlibs-tests/): unit, functional, and Juju integration tests
- [Publishing from the monorepo](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/explanation/charmlibs-publishing/): semantic versioning, dev versions, trusted publishing

> - Customizing your [functional](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/how-to/customize-functional-tests/) and [integration](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/how-to/customize-integration-tests/) tests.

Reviewer: Are you already consistently US English :vomit: here? What about avoiding the word, like:

```suggestion
- Adapting your [functional](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/how-to/customize-functional-tests/) and [integration](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/charmlibs/how-to/customize-integration-tests/) tests.
```

Author: Yeah, the page titles and URLs use 'customize', so that ship has sailed :'(
